.\" bedrock(1) man page
.\" Section 1: user commands.
.\" Source: man/bedrock.1 in the bedrock repository.
.TH BEDROCK 1 "April 2026" "bedrock 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bedrock \- CLI auditor for fundamental domain security controls (DNS, DNSSEC, Email, BIMI, Web/TLS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bedrock
.RI [ flags ]
.I domain
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bedrock
inspects a target domain against IETF and vendor (Gmail) requirements
across DNS, DNSSEC, Email, and Web/TLS
and emits a verdict per check.
BIMI checks (BIMI Group draft + Gmail requirements) are reported under
the Email category.
Each result cites the RFC section that defines the requirement,
and every failure is accompanied by a copy-pasteable record, header,
or configuration snippet the operator can publish to fix it.
.PP
The tool is a single static binary with no runtime dependencies,
suitable for CI pipelines and ad-hoc audits.
By default it performs active probes
(HTTPS GETs, SMTP STARTTLS handshakes, MTA-STS and BIMI VMC fetches);
pass
.B \-\-no\-active
to confine the run to DNS lookups.
.PP
The HTTP client denylists RFC 1918, loopback, link-local, ULA, CGNAT, and
cloud-metadata addresses to neutralise SSRF via attacker-influenced DNS.
Resolvers pointing at private address space are rejected unless the
.B BEDROCK_ALLOW_PRIVATE_RESOLVER
environment variable is set to a non-empty value (intended for hermetic
test labs).
.PP
.I domain
may be an internationalised domain name; it is normalised to ASCII
(Punycode), lowercased, and any trailing dot is stripped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version line and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit the report as JSON on standard output.
The schema is
.RI { target ", " results []} ,
where each result has
.IR id ", " category ", " title ", " status ", " evidence ", " remediation ", " rfc_refs .
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-md .
.TP
.B \-\-md
Emit the report as GitHub-flavoured Markdown on standard output.
Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-json .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-active
Skip active probes.
No SMTP STARTTLS handshakes, no HTTPS GETs, no MTA-STS policy fetch,
no BIMI VMC fetch, no QUIC dials.
Checks that require a connection are reported as
.B N/A
so the result schema remains stable.
.TP
.BI \-\-resolver " spec"
Use the specified recursive DNS resolver. Accepted forms:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B host
or
.B host:port
\(em UDP plaintext
.IP \(bu 2
.BR cloudflare ", " google ", " quad9 ", " opendns
\(em named preset over UDP
.IP \(bu 2
.BR cloudflare\-dot ", " google\-dot ", " quad9\-dot ", " opendns\-dot
\(em named preset over DNS-over-TLS (port 853)
.IP \(bu 2
.BR cloudflare\-doh ", " google\-doh ", " quad9\-doh ", " opendns\-doh
\(em named preset over DNS-over-HTTPS (RFC 8484)
.IP \(bu 2
.BI tls:// host[:port]
\(em explicit DoT to a custom server
.IP \(bu 2
.BI https:// host/path
\(em explicit DoH to a custom server
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-resolvers " csv"
Comma-separated list of resolver specs (same syntax as
.BR \-\-resolver ).
Each query is sent to every listed resolver in parallel; the first answer is
used for normal lookups and the full set is exposed to the propagation check.
Preferred over
.B \-\-resolver
when both are supplied.
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout " duration"
Per-operation timeout for DNS queries, HTTPS GETs, and TLS handshakes.
Accepts any Go duration string
.RB ( 500ms ", " 5s ", " 1m ).
Default:
.BR 5s .
.TP
.BI \-\-config " path"
Read defaults from a JSON config file at
.IR path .
Keys mirror the long-form flag names with hyphens replaced by underscores.
Flag values supplied on the command line override config values.
.TP
.BI \-\-only " csv"
Comma-separated list of categories to include in output
(e.g.\&
.BR Email,WWW ).
Other categories are still executed but suppressed at render time.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude " csv"
Comma-separated list of categories to exclude from output.
.TP
.BI \-\-ids " csv"
Comma-separated list of specific check IDs to include
(e.g.\&
.BR email.dmarc.record,web.hsts ).
.TP
.BI \-\-severity " level"
Minimum severity to include in output. One of
.BR info ", " pass ", " warn ", " fail .
.B N/A
results are always shown so the schema remains stable.
.TP
.B \-\-enable\-ct
Enable Certificate Transparency lookups via the crt.sh search API
(third-party). Off by default.
.TP
.B \-\-enable\-rbl
Enable DNSBL/RBL queries against Spamhaus, Barracuda, SpamCop, SORBS,
and Surriel PSBL. Listings are reported as
.B WARN ,
not
.B FAIL ,
since false positives and stale entries are common. Off by default.
.TP
.B \-\-subdomains
Enumerate subdomains via passive sources
.RB ( hackertarget ,
.BR anubis ,
.BR threatcrowd ,
.BR wayback )
and probe each discovered host for TLS reachability and certificate
hygiene. Hostnames are allowlisted against
.B ^[a-zA-Z0-9._-]+$
at both source and enumerate time. Off by default.
.TP
.BI \-\-baseline " path"
Path to a previously-saved JSON report. Results are diffed against the
baseline and any check that is now
.B FAIL
but was previously
.BR PASS ", " WARN ", or " INFO
is reported as a regression. Duplicate IDs in a baseline file cause every
current
.B FAIL
for that ID to be reported as a regression (fails closed \(em an ambiguous
baseline cannot mask a regression).
.TP
.B \-\-regression\-only
With
.BR \-\-baseline :
exit non-zero only on NEW failures versus the baseline.
Pre-existing failures that have not changed are ignored.
Useful as a CI gate that won't fail on legacy issues you've consciously
deferred.
.SH OUTPUT
By default the tool writes a colourised text report to standard output
when standard output is a terminal; colour is suppressed when redirected.
Each result line shows category, status, check ID, and a one-line evidence
string.
Failures additionally show a remediation block.
ANSI, C0, C1, and DEL bytes in attacker-controlled evidence are replaced
with U+FFFD.
.PP
The JSON output is the canonical projection; the text and Markdown
formats are derived from the same
.I [ ]Result
view.
.SH SEVERITY
Each check returns one of five statuses:
.TP
.B PASS
The check satisfied its requirement.
.TP
.B WARN
A non-fatal observation. Does
.I not
affect the exit code.
.TP
.B FAIL
The requirement was not met. Affects the exit code.
A remediation snippet is always provided.
.TP
.B INFO
A purely informational observation (e.g.\& detected software, profile match,
legacy Google Workspace MX layout).
.TP
.B N/A
The check was not applicable to this target
(e.g.\& BIMI checks against a domain with no MX, or any active probe with
.B \-\-no\-active
in effect).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The report contained no
.B FAIL
results.
.B WARN
and
.B INFO
do not affect exit status.
.TP
.B 1
The report contained at least one
.B FAIL
(or, with
.BR \-\-regression\-only ,
a new
.B FAIL
versus the baseline).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error, invalid target, render failure, or unreachable resolver.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic audit, human-readable text:
.EX
$ bedrock example.org
.EE
.TP
Pin a recursive resolver for reproducibility:
.EX
$ bedrock \-\-resolver 1.1.1.1:53 example.org
.EE
.TP
Emit JSON, then filter to just failures with
.BR jq (1):
.EX
$ bedrock \-\-json example.org | \\
    jq '.results[] | select(.status == "FAIL")'
.EE
.TP
Generate a Markdown report for review:
.EX
$ bedrock \-\-md example.org > example.org.report.md
.EE
.TP
DNS-only audit of a third-party domain (no outbound TCP beyond DNS):
.EX
$ bedrock \-\-no\-active partner.example.com
.EE
.TP
Use in a CI pipeline; non-zero exit fails the job on any
.B FAIL :
.EX
$ bedrock \-\-json prod.example.com > posture.json || \\
    { cat posture.json; exit 1; }
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/resolv.conf
Consulted when
.B \-\-resolver
is not supplied.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BEDROCK_ALLOW_PRIVATE_RESOLVER
When set to a non-empty value, bypasses the resolver-IP denylist so
loopback / RFC 1918 resolvers can be used. Intended for hermetic test
environments only; production callers must leave this unset.
.PP
Otherwise
.B bedrock
ignores all environment variables other than those consulted by the
Go runtime
.RB ( SSL_CERT_FILE ", " SSL_CERT_DIR )
for system root certificates and any standard OS resolver configuration.
.SH STANDARDS
.B bedrock
checks reference, among others:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
RFC 1034, 1035, 1912, 2181, 2308, 3596, 3597, 5936 (DNS)
.IP \(bu 2
RFC 4033, 4034, 4035, 4509, 5011, 5155, 6605, 6781, 7344, 8624 (DNSSEC)
.IP \(bu 2
RFC 5321, 3207, 7505 (SMTP / STARTTLS / Null MX)
.IP \(bu 2
RFC 7208 (SPF), 6376 (DKIM), 7489 (DMARC), 8617 (ARC),
8460 (TLS-RPT), 8461 (MTA-STS), 7672 (DANE-SMTP), 5782 (DNSBL)
.IP \(bu 2
RFC 5280, 6125, 6797 (HSTS), 7525 / BCP 195 (TLS), 8659 (CAA),
6066 / 6960 (OCSP), 9162 (CT), 9113 (HTTP/2), 9114 (HTTP/3)
.IP \(bu 2
BIMI Group draft, Gmail BIMI requirements, RFC 3709 LogotypeExtn
.RE
.SH LIMITATIONS
The Go standard library does not expose the negotiated TLS elliptic curve;
TLS profile scoring uses protocol version, negotiated cipher suite, and
the served certificate's key as discriminators. Accepted EC curves are
detected via probe-and-detect in a separate check.
.PP
DKIM selector probing covers a fixed list of well-known selectors plus
ESP-specific selectors derived from SPF includes. Custom per-tenant
selectors (e.g. HubSpot's
.BR hs1\-<id>\-<domain>
pattern) cannot be discovered without the customer ID.
.PP
VMC chain validation uses
.B ExtKeyUsageAny
because the BIMI EKU OIDs
.RB ( 1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.31
and
.BR 1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.32 )
are not present in the Go standard library's root usage table. A
BIMI-specific EKU gate runs
.I before
chain verification to reject certificates lacking the correct purpose.
The logotype extension is now decoded via real RFC 3709 ASN.1
(previously a SHA-256 byte search); the SVG hash in the cert must match
the fetched SVG for the check to pass.
.SH BUGS
Report issues against the source repository.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dig (1),
.BR drill (1),
.BR openssl (1),
.BR jq (1),
.BR curl (1)
